---
title: "Fixing Up to Old Laptop"
date: 2025-08-30T00:00:00-04:00
author: Matthew Maurer [maurerit](https://github.com/maurerit)
draft: false
---

So, I recently purchase a different laptop.  I had been using the old MSI Katana for a couple of years and I've never fully loved it.  I've complained about it on these pages in the past and I finally found something that looked right for me.  In talking with some linux nerds who also play EVE (we started a discord for EVE Players that want to switch to linux) and they were all saying that AMD hardware plays so nice with Linux.  So that was criteria 1.  Next is that it has to have a discrete GPU and it has to be comparable to the 4050 that is in the Katana.  Criteria 2.  Like I've said on these pages, the touchpad has to be in the center, or very close to it.  Criteria 3.  It also should have a specific texture, hard to tell over photos but there are some giveaways.  Criteria 4.  With all these criteria I had my search cut out for me.

I searched Micro Center, I search New Egg and I searched the interwebs via Brave Search.  I found plenty of hits but the next task was whittling down my options.  Honestly, the choices were slim in comparison to the NVIDIA market but I had options.  So I was running comparisons between the different GPU's and somewhat cpu's.  I was less worried about the cpu as I've had Ryzens before in the past and have not been disappointed.  The RX 7700S stood out to me as an awesome mid tier option and the prices were actually fairly impressive.  I had snagged the MSI on sale for about 1,000 USD and that was a deal to me.  This one came in under that and was slightly more powerful.  Score!

I found it on Amazon so I debated what I would do if there were issue's.  I think I've still got 8 days to come within the 30 days money back that Amazon offers but after that I'm not sure what I'll do if I have issue's.  Hopefully it's like the old laptop where I remove the cooler, clean out the heatsinks and repaste the sucker.  Because if they want me to show them the error with windows... since that's how THEY planned on this hardware being used... and I'm running linux... because I BOUGHT THE THING and should be able to do WHAT I WANT WITH IT... and if I surperior kernel says there's a hardware issue and I've done all that I can do to mitigate then there is a hardware issue and I need a replacement.  Bridge we'll cross hopefully never :D.

The repaste and cleaning was all I did to the old laptop.  It was QUITE dirty.  The temps went from running at like 90c idle to running at around 50c idle... quite the difference.  The old paste job wasn't the greatest or the paste had just seen better days.  I have abused that laptop quite a bit.  It operates on a lap on a bed and on fabric all the time in a house with 5 cats who constantly also sit on my lap and shed.  That plus the extreme heats of Cities Skylines and Baldurs Gate 3 and Sekiro then you've got a recipe for failure.  So there must have been microscopic hot pockets causing portions of the gpu or cpu to do something the kernel didn't like and it shut it down.  Because let me tell you, it shut it down.  Like, my gpu wasn't even there anymore.  At least not from a usability standpoint.

Now I'm looking for what to do with this laptop.  Mini server sitting on my dresser, distro hopper for testing NVIDIA things... although it would be limited to newer kernels, I still haven't figured out why older kernels can't see the wireless card.  It's role will be determined before too long but for now it sits, idle, next to me.

Here's to a new lease on life!