---
title: "Windows Really Does Suck"
date: 2025-06-09T10:13:57-04:00
author: Matthew Maurer [maurerit](https://github.com/maurerit)
draft: true
---

This isn't anything ground breaking I know but I felt like complaining about it.  Two things really have been getting on my nerves after daily driving KDE for the past couple months now.  Maybe it has actualy been several months since I've been in CachyOS now for nearly a month.  Anyways, the main thing I've grown rather fond of is virtual desktops.  I have a very specific setup which works perfectly for how I use a computer.

You see, I have 9 virtual desktops in a 3 by 3 configuration.  My IDE's are in specific desktops, browsing, chatting, gaming.  Those are my main functions.  I don't have a terminal specific desktop because I generally use the cli more when I'm coding and my IDE's have embedded shells which are actually just fine.  I do fire up the terminal in other desktops when say I need to kill a program that just won't pop up the "Do you want to kill this program" KDE popup or I just think of something I want to install, so generally my terminals are in my browsing desktop.  Which makes sense since I'm probably reading some documentation somewhere.

This is where Windows really sucks.  Their virtual desktops are just in a line, no way to configure them in a 3 by 3 or any other configuration.  Everything in windows is a carpul tunnel inducing terrible UI decision.  Because to get to other desktops you three finger swipe life, or right.  So let's say I have my browsing in the first desktop, my ide in the second desktop, chat in the third desktop and my blogging in the fourth desktop.  I'll spend more time going back and forth from the first to second desktop  but I'll shift over to the third desktop from time to time and during breaks I'll go over to the blogging screen.  I'll spend ALL of my time going just back and fourth, basically the same operation over and over.  Over time those will get to my wrists and become annoyingly achy.  I'll give it a try though and see how it plays out.

The next thing is the damn task bar.  You used to be able to put it up top and I always did.  I spend more time up there then I do down at the bottom and switching tasks with the mouse is much more comfortable that way.  Now I have to go all the way down to the taskbar at the bottom, find my task and do the switch.  I could of course alt tab but I never actually liked how alt tabbing worked.  Can't put my fingers on it but I hate it.  I've gotten so used to it at the bottom thanks to windows 11 that I even sill have it down there on KDE.