---
title: "My Autonomous Tank"
date: 2025-04-29T03:36:58-04:00
draft: true
---

Building something that can think and act on its own has always been a dream of mine. During my Arduino phase, I found myself experimenting with all sorts of sensors, including an ultrasonic range finder. This little device, capable of measuring distances using sound, became the cornerstone of an ambitious idea: creating an autonomous tank. What started as a simple curiosity soon turned into a challenging and rewarding project.

I started out by generating a physical diagram.  Deciding how much power I needed to give it, what my components were going to be and how I'd tie them all together.  I'm glad I took this step instead of just hacking things together.  I didn't have a way to debug on device so I needed the design to be the best I could generate.

The power situation was a bit of a tricky one.  I didn't want it to go fast but I didn't want it crawling around at a snail's pace either.  If I powered it through the arduino directly then I could only provide 5 volts, I knew I needed more than that.  So I opted for 8 nickel cadmium batteries and found that I could plug them into the motor shield which could handle 12 volts and downstep this for the arduino.  Eight of these specific battery types would put out between 1 and 1.5 volts.  This was much better than alkaline batteries as those have a max charge of around 1.7 volts which would have put me over the 12 volts that the motor shield could handle.  Maybe I would have been fine but I didn't want to risk it.  I'm no electrical engineer after all and these components weren't cheap for me.  After the power situation was solved it was time to dive into the code.

I opted to use C++ as I wasn't all that great at functional programming.  My brain required the objects to work properly.  Arduino's support C++... barely.  Their onboard memory isn't very high so I had to keep my component list small.  I had a turret class, a 'treads class' (can't remember what I called it) and a battery class.  I had future plans as well that involved using xbee radios for control and telemetry but I never got that far.  Instead I focused on the meat and potatoes of the project... getting it to move.

The code took me awhile to get through.  I can't remember all the details as it was 12 or 13 years ago at this point.  But I had to re-aquaint myself with C++, generate the methods for the components fumble around in the Arduino IDE and then test.  Working inside the Arduino IDE was the hardest part.  It's not a full fledged IDE or wasn't at the time.  So it wasn't easy to navigate with control clicking methods or classes etc which slowed me down.

Finally the day came when I could test it.  So I put the tank up on 'blocks' and messed with it.  It was programmed to go in a straight line until it saw an object 2 feet in front of it.  At that point it would rotate the sensor and take readings at different angles until it went all the way from right to left.  It would then pick the longest distance it found in that scan and start turning in that direction scanning the whole time until it found a decent vector.  So, I'd turn the thing on, put my hand in front of the sensor and then watch it do it's scan.

Testing this way went ok but I couldn't easily tell which direction it SHOULD be picking and so I decided at one point to just put it on the floor and let it do it's thing.  It only turned left... I guess I trained it on nascar data...  It also seg faulted because something in my linked list implementation wasn't freeing it's memory.  I could have sworn that I just overwrote readings and didn't instantiate a new linked list every scan.  That code is somewhere inaccessible to me atm though so I can't really tell you what went wrong.

After finally getting it on the floor I seemed to have lost interest.  I don't know if it was the bug that I had found or if I just felt like I had accomplished enough and I wanted to take it another step forward but I couldn't afford the things I needed to make a more permanent tank.  Alas, I was a broke newbie developer starting a family so I didn't have a ton of excess cash to spend on this hobby... because I had other expensive hobbies... like trying to be competitive at Magic: The Gathering... that's a story for another day.