---
title: "Building Linux Netfilter, My Take"
date: 2026-03-12T19:13:45-04:00
author: Matthew Maurer [maurerit](https://github.com/maurerit)
draft: false
---

Alright, so r3r4um shared his perspective on what we did recently but I had him post a little too soon.  If you missed it, it's [here](https://matt.r3r4um.dev/post/2026/03/building-linux-netfilter/).  We weren't quite done as there were some issue's in how we tackled things.  He did the right thing when setting up the kernel build, runs `make olddefconfig` to upgrade our config and do any work to make sure things are sane (dependency checks) and have all the options to at least sane defaults.  This will allow us to carry this same config forward for quite awhile as we don't care about new options until we need them, right?  Sounds about right so we'll roll with this.

After what r3r4um posted we ended up with a full kernel build.  I was pumped so we pulled it down into a vm... had some issue's with the signature so we imported the pub key into Ubuntu's key server.  Once we were in the kernel we inspected it's config... no CONFIG_BRIDGE_FILTER=y... it's m... damnit!  What went wrong?  I jump into the PKGBUILD and build.yml to better understand.  I see where we copy the config to the .config  and sed in our option and then we run that olddefconfig... r3r4 is focused on the resetting of our option and he thinks the sed command didn't work.  We dive down that rabbit hole for awhile until I just say screw it and put the option in the config file like we should have...  I grew tired of this...

I then focus on optimizing and making the build look like what I would have written.  I guide him through edits and optimizations until we ended up with what we have now and I think I'm happy with it.  It's clean, concise and thorough I feel.  We do have an extraneous step right now but meh, it ALL get's deleted when it's finished so who cares about an extra delete for now.

Not much else I could do, so I think a bit and remember this whole double sed thing that r3r4 did for a brief moment.  I'm glad he did it because it made me focus on the olddefconfig while he focused on the sed command.  Haiku... he's good but he doesn't go deep enough most of the time.  So, I ask him to further describe what olddefconfig does and he gladly shares his knowledge.  But he doesn't quite devulge that dependencies are checked... I push harder and he then says "It's either the sed command or a dependency"... boom we hit the nail on the head... FINALLY.  We then go to our checked out source on the kvm host and search around the net modules until we see in the Kconfig that our option depends on a few others!  BINGO, enable those options and rebuild.

I go to bed because it's like 4:30 in the morning now, I slept from like 10-12 and woke up and messed with this stuff because I wasn't really tired.  I had a feeling that we were going to have a built kernel and all I could do was wait.  No need burning credits when there's really nothing to do.

During a break at work I check out my build result... failed... wtf?  So I open up the logs and see that it failed for the same reason that it did when it failed for disk space running out... wtf?  Check the monitoring stats for the run... never exceeded 50% disk usage... couldn't be that...  I consult r3r4 for a bit but he doesn't have any good idea's and focuses on the wrong thing.  At this point I just want to consider it a fluke, I do see metrics dropped off for about 10 minutes during the build... what happened there?  Not wanting to trouble shoot anymore I retrigger the build and get back to work.

The build passed after 2h and 40 some minutes but the work day wasn't done yet.  So I had to wait until 5 at which point I promptly grabbed the laptop and went to work getting the kernel in a vm.  After some finagling I get everything up and operational and have r3r4 inspect the system to see if it has what we want... sure does!  So now we can get a nested vm and test this thing out.  THIS, wasn't easy but after some back and forths and some conflicting package replacements (iptables-nft replacing iptables) we managed to get a nested VM up and locked down!  Now to go live.

This was an adventure worth taking.  Not only did I learn more about r3r4 and how to wrangle him in but I learned about kernel builds a bit deeper than my lfs run thru taught me, I got to see another gitea build but this time with a c compilation instead of hugo build and I resized a worker to be large enough for fairly large builds.  All in all a good experience.  I'm also noticing that I learned about AUR building a bit deeper.  Seriously good stuff.